Saurabh Gupta
Senior Year B.Tech Student
Computer Science and Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi

+91 9911592327
cs1070185@cse.iitd.ernet.in
http://www.cse.iitd.ernet.in/~cs1070185

Academic Details
Year
Degree
Institute
Percentage/CGPA
2007- BTech in Computer Science Indian Institute of Technology
CGPA = 9.938/10
Present
and Engineering
Delhi
Institute Rank 1
Class XII
Bal Bharati Public School
90.2%
2007
CBSE-AISSCE
Rohini, Delhi
99% in Computer Science
Class X
Bal Bharati Public School
93.4%
2005
CBSE-AISSE
Rohini, Delhi
100% in Mathematics

Objective
To pursue graduate studies in computer science and engineering, leading to a career in research. I am
interested in computer vision and machine learning.

Major Projects
Improving Performance with MKL in SVMs

•

•

Dr. Manik Varma, MSR India
Dr. Prateek Jain, MSR India
Summer Internship and B.Tech Project
May 2010 - Present
Support Vector Machines learn linear classifiers from labelled training data to predict labels for previously unseen test data. Kernels with SVM’s allow to learn non linear classifiers, and hence lead to much
higher classification accuracies in practice. We are learning non linear kernel combinations to give
us even better classification accuracies and are seeing a possibility of a significant performance increase.
Also, looking at new regularizers (which take into account the model complexity) for use in the MKL
objective. Working towards submitting this to one of ICML, NIPS or ECCV.
Unsupervised Video Surveillance
Prof. Subhashis Banerjee, CSE, IITD
Student Undergraduate Research Award (SURA - 2009)
May 2009 - October 2009
This project involved the development of a novel technique to detect unusual activities in videos in an
unsupervised manner. We used pLSA with an appropriate choice for features on video clips to obtain
clustering of similar videos, and any new activity different from the ones learnt was flagged as unusual.
We also extended the idea to multi person unusual activity detection.

Other Projects
•

•

•

•

Captcha Reader
Prof. Prem Kalra
Digital Image Analysis Course Project
November 2010
I made a simple captcha reader to read the captcha in use for the institute web mail. It involved letter
segmentation and training in a semi supervised manner using a KNN classifier.
Using Structural Information for Object Recognition
Prof. Subhashis Banerjee
Computer Vision Course Project
April 2010
I investigated various feature vectors and techniques and frameworks for incorporating structural information in object recognition tasks.
Non Photo-realistic Rendering
Prof. Prem Kalra
Digital Image Analysis Course Project
September 2010
Implemented color quantization, dithering, image segmentation and edge enhancement (by edge linking,
differential thickening and smoothing) to give a painterly look to photo-realistic images.
Knowledge Management
Prof. Subhashis Banerjee
Independent Project
January 2010 - October 2010
Conceptualized new web 2.0 based IT services such as Interest Group Discussion Forums, Campus

Wiki, Project Database to allow easier collaboration, better information organization and formalizing
undocumented technical know how. Designed intuitive user interfaces and work-flows for these services
and customized existing open source drupal and foswiki project (by adding kerberos authentication,
LDAP integration), to finally deploy these services in the institute.
•

Funny Cell
Assistant Prof. Aaditeshwar Seth
Computer Networks Course Project
March 2010 - April 2010
This project was based on a molecule based inter-cell communication simulator designed by our professor.
We designed and analyzed robust communication protocols for inter cell molecular communication among
antibody cells in a loss full unreliable medium. Also designed combat strategies against infection cells.

Scholastic Achievements
• Institute Rank 1: Consistently maintaining institute rank 1 among 450 students over the last 3 years
at IIT Delhi. Receiving scholarships and awards for the same.
• Awarded with the Student Undergraduate Research Award (SURA), 2009 for the project on
Unsupervised Detection of Unusual Activities
• Kalpana Chawla Award, 2009 for contribution to research at IIT Delhi.
• Ranked 83rd in the Joint Entrance Examination(IIT-JEE 2007) taken by over 250,000 students
across the country.
• Among the top 400 students who qualified for Indian National Physics Olympiad (INPhO), Indian
National Chemistry Olympiad (INChO) and Indian National Mathematics Olympiad (INMO) in the
year 2006-07.
• CBSE Merit Scholarship: Receiving scholarship for securing 29th rank among 600,000 students in
AIEEE 2007.
• NTSE Scholar: Among the top 700 students receiving the National Talent Search Examination scholarship (NTSE-2005). Topped the state level examination.

Conferences/Workshops Attended
• Research Intern at Microsoft Research India, Bangalore in the Vision Graphics and Visualization
Group and worked with Manik Varma and Prateek Jain.
• Attended the 2010 Winter School on Machine Learning and Computer Vision organized by IISc
Bangalore with Microsoft Research(MSR) and Canadian Institute for Advanced Research (CIFAR)
featuring lectures by researchers such as Jitendra Malik, William Freeman, Yair Weiss, Brendan Frey
and Martin Wainwright.
• Attended the Special Interest Groups in Communications (SIGCOMM) Conference, 2010
• Will attend the Seventh Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics and Image Processing(ICVGIP).
• Will attend the 3rd Microsoft Research India Computer Vision and Graphics Shindig.

Relevant Courses
• Computer Science: Computer Vision, Digital Image Analysis, Approximation Algorithms, Numerical
and Scientific Computing∗ , Parallel Programming∗ , Computer Networks, Operating Systems, Theory Of
Computation, Analysis and Design of Algorithms, Programming Languages, Digital Hardware Design,
Computer Architecture, Discrete Mathematical Structures, Data Structures, ICTs for Development.
• Mathematics: Graph Theory∗ , Numerical Optimization, Statistical Methods and Algorithms, Probability Theory, Stochastic Process, Real Analysis, Differential Equations, Linear Algebra, Matrix Theory.
∗ Courses to be done in Spring 2011.

Computer Skills
• Programming Languages: Java, C/C++, Perl, Python, SML, Lex, Yacc, Prolog, PHP, MySQL,
JavaScript, VHDL, MIPS32 (Assembly Language).
• Software Packages: Matlab, OpenCV, Xilinx, Latex, Doxygen.
• Platforms: Linux and Windows.

Extra Curricular Activities
• Programming Contests: Actively participate in online programming contests(OPC) and have won
the following awards.
• Blue Coder on Topcoder with a rating of 1496.
• Won the 1st prize in inter college pen and paper based algorithms event at Tryst 2010 (Technical
Festival IIT Delhi).
• Qualified for the ACM ICPC 2009 Gwalior Kanpur Site Contest held at IIITM Gwalior.

Position Of Responsibility
• Member of the department System Administrator team since May 2009. Maintain over 100 clients,
10 servers and around 15 IT services, like authentication, mailing, directory service, internet access,
course management, remote client management.
• Served as a Student Mentor for the CSE Department First Year Students. Helped them get acquainted
with the college studies and environment.

References
• Manik Varma, Researcher, Vision Graphics and Visualisation Group, Microsoft Research India, +91080-66586000, manik@microsoft.com.
• Subhashis Banerjee, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute
of Technology Delhi, +91-011-26591288, suban@cse.iitd.ernet.in.
• Prateek Jain, Associate Researcher, Algorithms Research Group, Microsoft Research India, +91-08066586000, prajain@microsoft.com.

